# Offical pytorch code for paper "Illumination Distribution-Aware Thermal Pedestrian Detection".

## Abstract

Thermal pedestrian detection is a core problem in computer vision. Since thermal pedestrian detection has different performances in the day and night, one approach is to let the detection network can extract discriminate features by using a day and night classification auxiliary task. However, illumination annotations are  not always available. Moreover, simply classifying images as day or night is too crude which reduces the detector performance. We address this issue by regression of conditional thermal-visible feature distribution in the detection task, dubbed as **Illumination Distribution-Aware adaptation (IDA)**, which can be used as a plug-in. The key idea is to compute the joint distribution between the thermal and visible features, and then establish an auxiliary task to predict the conditional visible feature distribution given a thermal image. Specifically, feature co-occurrence matrices are constructed to approximate the thermal-visible feature distribution. For a thermal image, we query this feature co-occurrence matrices to get conditional probability distribution to supervise a regression auxiliary task. In this way, more discriminate features are extracted and the visible knowledge are implicitly transferred into the thermal domain. Experiment results show that without extra annotations, our method performs better than the methods using illumination annotations.
